Hello, and Welcome.
In this work, we investigate a novel method to music-based content generation
for a genre of games known as rhythm games.
Rhythm games refer to video games, which require the player to perform specific actions in sync with a piece of music.
Such sequence of actions is commonly called a "chart".
in this case, the player earns scores
by correctly pressing the four corresponding buttons on the keyboard,
on the correct timing.
there does not exist a uniquely fixed answer to charting,
with individual styles of the charter often a big factor in deciding how the chart will turn out to be.
Further complicating the problem is that the notes must be placed in a way that fits the music,
and the difficulty must be adjusted to match the player's needs.
Charting is a highly nontrivial challenge.
In response, a number of learning-based approaches to chart generation were proposed.
However, many of them infer on short time granules,
inferring if a note exists for each and every one of them.
Typically, more than 90% of time granules do not have notes associated with them,
therefore a class imbalance is caused.
We reformulate chart generation as a sequence generation problem, and utilize a big dataset so that our model may converge well.
We use the four-key "mania" mode of a popular rhythm game, "Osu!".
The game is open-sourced and community driven;
over the past 16-years since the game's launch tens of thousands songs had a chart made for them by the users.
We gather more than 250 hours-worth of peer-reviewed charts, and divide them as follows.
In our approach, we feed constant-length Log-Mel spectrograms
to an encoder-decoder transformer network,
autoregressively generating tokens,
which directly correspond to charts.
These tokens are fed to the network again,
with the next batch of spectrograms, one-half overlapping with the previous batch,
to generate charts for the next part.
this continues until the music ends.
To make learning easier for our model, we align training samples to the beat,
and normalize the length, so that the transformer will be fed four beats of samples at a time.
We do this in hopes that our model may learn to recognize and utilize musical microstructure.
For example, we want the model to recognize that a heavy stimulus like the kick
...is more likely to occur on the downbeat, than, say, one third of a beat.
It turned out that this beat-aligning increases metrics dramatically,
especially for notes in unconventional positions, for instance those positioned on one third or one eighth of a beat.
more evaluation, including comparison with a baseline, is available on our companion page discussed later.
Now we present some excerpts of charts generated from pieces of music yet unseen by the model.
Qualitatively, we observe that our model can generate charts for various genres,
at various difficulties, often accentuating any musical context.
We publicly share our training code and trained models.
We are looking for feedback on the quality of charts generated, or on our approach itself.
Please find more information on our companion site, stet-stet.github.io/goct.
Thank you.